documentation/site/pages/prove/becoming-a-prover.mdx, before:

# Becoming a Prover

## Who Should Be a Prover?

:::warning[Be warned!] 
Running a *competitive* prover requires expensive hardware and extensive expertise. We predict that multiple top-of-the-line GPUs (e.g., NVIDIA RTX 4090s) will be necessary to run a competitive prover. This level of investment and technical know-how may be out of reach for most consumer-grade setups. 

For more details on the hardware and technical requirements, please see the [Requirements](/prove/requirements) section. 
:::

Becoming a prover is ideal for individuals or organizations with:

* Expertise in running high-performance infrastructure.
* Spare GPU capacity that can be utilized for proof generation.
* An understanding of cryptographic protocols and decentralized systems.
* Proving requires significant computational resources, especially for parallelized GPU proving. Provers must balance hardware investment, operational costs, and the competitive nature of auctions to succeed.

## Prover Responsibilities 

The Boundless Market enables anyone with the right infrastructure and expertise to become a prover. Provers play a critical role in the ecosystem by evaluating proof requests, participating in auctions, and generating proofs that fulfill these requests.

As a prover, your responsibilities include:

* **Evaluating Proof Requests**: Assessing the feasibility and cost of fulfilling a request based on factors like program complexity, cycle count, stake requirements, and timeout length.
* **Participating in Auctions**: Competing in reverse Dutch auctions to win proof-generating opportunities. The auction mechanism ensures that provers who bid first provide the best prices for requestors.
* **Generating Proofs**: Using high-performance hardware (e.g. GPUs) to generate proofs efficiently and deliver them before the request timeout.

These core operations are implemented in the provided [prover stack](/prove/proving-stack).

## Rewards for Proving

:::warning[Warning]
Participation in the market does not guarantee a reward.
:::

Provers are rewarded with payments from the clients for fulfilled proof requests.



Orders will vary in their profitability based on the offer provided by the requestors, and bids placed by competitive provers.
Filling orders below cost, or failing to deliver on orders the prover has bid on, can result in losses.

## Getting Started as a Prover

While provers can build their own infrastructure from scratch, Boundless provides a [proving stack](/prove/proving-stack) to get started.
Please see the Boundless Prover [Quick Start](/prove/quick-start).

Commit message:

add hp tokens, add banner, add clarity on incentives and add nvcc script

documentation/site/pages/prove/becoming-a-prover.mdx, after:

# Becoming a Prover

## Who Should Be a Prover?

:::warning[Warning]
Participation as a prover in the market does not guarantee a reward. **Incentives for provers are not active for this phase**.

Running a competitive prover requires expensive hardware and extensive expertise. We predict that multiple top-of-the-line GPUs (e.g., NVIDIA RTX 4090s) will be necessary to run a competitive prover. This level of investment and technical know-how may be out of reach for most consumer-grade setups.
:::

For more details on the hardware and technical requirements, please see the [Requirements](/prove/requirements) section. 

Becoming a prover is ideal for individuals or organizations with:

* Expertise in running high-performance infrastructure.
* Spare GPU capacity that can be utilized for proof generation.
* An understanding of cryptographic protocols and decentralized systems.
* Proving requires significant computational resources, especially for parallelized GPU proving. Provers must balance hardware investment, operational costs, and the competitive nature of auctions to succeed.

## Prover Responsibilities 

The Boundless Market enables anyone with the right infrastructure and expertise to become a prover. Provers play a critical role in the ecosystem by evaluating proof requests, participating in auctions, and generating proofs that fulfill these requests.

As a prover, your responsibilities include:

* **Evaluating Proof Requests**: Assessing the feasibility and cost of fulfilling a request based on factors like program complexity, cycle count, stake requirements, and timeout length.
* **Participating in Auctions**: Competing in reverse Dutch auctions to win proof-generating opportunities. The auction mechanism ensures that provers who bid first provide the best prices for requestors.
* **Generating Proofs**: Using high-performance hardware (e.g., GPUs) to generate proofs efficiently and deliver them before the request timeout.

These core operations are implemented in the provided [prover stack](/prove/proving-stack).

## Rewards for Proving

:::warning[Warning]
Participation as a prover in the market does not guarantee a reward. **Incentives for provers are not active for this phase**.
:::

Provers are rewarded with payments from the clients for fulfilled proof requests.

Orders will vary in their profitability based on the offer provided by the requestors, and bids placed by competitive provers.
Filling orders below cost, or failing to deliver on orders the prover has bid on, can result in losses.

## Getting Started as a Prover

While provers can build their own infrastructure from scratch, Boundless provides a [proving stack](/prove/proving-stack) to get started.
Please see the Boundless Prover [Quick Start](/prove/quick-start).
