documentation/site/pages/prove/broker.mdx, before:

# Broker Configuration & Operation

## Overview

The Broker is a service that runs within the [Bento](/prove/proving-stack#what-is-bento) proving stack. It is responsible for market interactions including bidding on jobs, locking them, issuing job requests to the Bento proving cluster, and submitting proof fulfillments on-chain.

## Broker Configuration

Broker configuration is primarily managed through the `broker.toml` file in the Boundless directory. This file is mounted into the Broker container and it is used to configure the Broker daemon.

:::tip
Broker will live-reload the `broker.toml` when it changes. In most cases, you will not need to restart the Broker for the configuration to take effect.
:::

### Deposit / Balance

The Boundless market requires staking funds to be deposited to bid on requests.
Brokers must first deposit some HP into the market contract to fund their account.
These funds cover staking during lock-in.
It is recommend that a broker keep a balance on the market >= `max_stake` (configured via broker.toml).

:::warning
TODO: Discuss HP here
:::

### Deposit Stake to the Market

:::warning
TODO: Link to boundless-cli install instructions
:::

```sh [Terminal]
export RPC_URL=<TARGET_CHAIN_RPC_URL>
export PRIVATE_KEY=<BROKER_PRIVATE_KEY>
export BOUNDLESS_MARKET_ADDRESS=<BOUNDLESS_MARKET_ADDR>

# Example: 'deposit-stake 10'
boundless-cli deposit-stake <ETH_TO_DEPOSIT>
```

### Check Current Stake Balance

```sh [Terminal]
export RPC_URL=<TARGET_CHAIN_RPC_URL>
export PRIVATE_KEY=<BROKER_PRIVATE_KEY>
export BOUNDLESS_MARKET_ADDRESS=<BOUNDLESS_MARKET_ADDR>

boundless-cli balance-of-stake [wallet_address]
```

You can omit the `PRIVATE_KEY` environment variable here and specify your `wallet_address` as a optional parameter to the `balance` command, i.e. `balance 0x000....`

### Settings in Broker.toml

:::warning[Warning]
Quotation marks matter in TOML so please pay particular attention to the quotation marks for config values.
:::

`broker.toml` contains the following settings for the market:

| setting                  | initial value | description                                                                                                    |
| ------------------------ | ------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| mcycle\_price            | `".001"`      | The price (in native token of target market) of proving 1M cycles.                                             |
| assumption\_price        | `"0.1"`       | Currently unused.                                                                                              |
| peak\_prove\_khz         | `500`         | This should correspond to the maximum number of cycles per second (in kHz) your proving backend can operate.   |
| min\_deadline            | `150`         | This is a minimum number of blocks before the requested job expiration that Broker will attempt to lock a job. |
| lookback\_blocks         | `100`         | This is used on Broker initialization, and sets the number of blocks to look back for candidate proofs.        |
| max\_stake               | `"0.5"`       | The maximum amount used to lock in a job for any single order.                                                 |
| skip\_preflight\_ids     | `[]`          | A list of `imageID`s that the Broker should skip preflight checks in format `["0xID1","0xID2"]`.               |
| max\_file\_size          | `50_000_000`  | The maximum guest image size in bytes that the Broker will accept.                                             |
| allow\_client\_addresses | `[]`          | When defined, this acts as a firewall to limit proving only to specific client addresses.                           |
| lockin\_priority\_gas    | `100`         | Additional gas to add to the base price when locking in stake on a contract to increase priority.              |

## Broker Operation

### Make sure Bento is running

:::warning[Warning]
A Broker needs a [Bento](/prove/proving-stack#what-is-bento) instance to operate. Please follow the [quick start](/prove/quick-start) guide to get Bento up and running.
:::

To check Bento is running correctly, you can send a sample proof workload:

```sh [Terminal]
# In the bento directory
RUST_LOG=info cargo run --bin bento_cli -- -c 32
```

```txt [Terminal]
2024-10-23T14:37:37.364844Z  INFO bento_cli: image_id: a0dfc25e54ebde808e4fd8c34b6549bbb91b4928edeea90ceb7d1d8e7e9096c7 | input_id: eccc8f06-488a-426c-ae3d-e5acada9ae22
2024-10-23T14:37:37.368613Z  INFO bento_cli: STARK job_id: 0d89e2ca-a1e3-478f-b89d-8ab23b89f51e
2024-10-23T14:37:37.369346Z  INFO bento_cli: STARK Job running....
2024-10-23T14:37:39.371331Z  INFO bento_cli: STARK Job running....
2024-10-23T14:37:41.373508Z  INFO bento_cli: STARK Job running....
2024-10-23T14:37:43.375780Z  INFO bento_cli: Job done!
```

### Funding Your Broker on the Proving Market

:::warning[Warning]
For the current Sepolia testnet phase, we recommend funding your broker account around 1-2 Sepolia ETH. We are striving to make gas costs for market interactions in future significantly less.
:::

For the broker to interact with a [market contract](/deployments), it needs to have an associated account with a sufficient $ETH balance to pay for gas fees.

The following process will guide you through setting up a new wallet and funding it with testnet ETH:

::::steps

##### Set the environment variables `PRIVATE_KEY`, `SET_VERIFIER_ADDR`,`BOUNDLESS_MARKET_ADDR` in `.env-compose`

```sh [Terminal]
# Prover node configs
....
PRIVATE_KEY=0xYOUR_TEST_WALLET_PRIVATE_KEY_HERE
....
BOUNDLESS_MARKET_ADDR=0x69c7943DA0D7e45D44Bd0cE7a2412DCdAe423788 # This is the address of the market contract on the target chain.
....
RPC_URL="https://rpc.sepolia.org" # This is the RPC URL of the target chain.
....
```

##### Source the `.env-compose` file

```sh [Terminal]
source .env-compose
```

##### The Broker account needs funds deposited on the Boundless market contract to cover lock-in stake on requests. Run the following command to deposit an initial amount of ETH into the market contract:

```sh
# Set amount in ETH denominated units
# 0.5 Sepolia ETH should be OK for basic testing
# BOUNDLESS_DEPOSIT=0.5

RUST_LOG=info,boundless_market=debug cargo run --bin cli --  deposit ${BOUNDLESS_DEPOSIT:?}
```

```txt [Terminal]
2024-10-23T14:29:52.704754Z DEBUG boundless_market::contracts::boundless_market: Calling deposit() value: 500000000000000000
2024-10-23T14:29:52.993892Z DEBUG boundless_market::contracts::boundless_market: Broadcasting deposit tx 0xfc5c11e75101a9158735ec9e9519f5692b2f64b3337268b7ed999502956cd982
2024-10-23T14:30:07.175952Z DEBUG boundless_market::contracts::boundless_market: Submitted deposit 0xfc5c11e75101a9158735ec9e9519f5692b2f64b3337268b7ed999502956cd982
2024-10-23T14:30:07.175994Z  INFO cli: Deposited: 500000000000000000
```

::::

### Running the Broker service

:::warning[Warning]
Before running the Broker, make sure you have connected to a running instance of Bento.
:::

```sh [Terminal]
docker compose --profile broker --env-file ./.env-compose up --build
```

### Stopping The Broker Service

```sh [Terminal]
docker compose --profile broker down
```

## Broker Optimization

### Increasing Lock-in Rate

Once your broker is running, there are a few methods to optimize the lock-in rate. These methods are aimed at making your broker service more competitive in the market through different means:

1. Decreasing the `mcycle_price` would tune your Broker to bid at lower prices for proofs.
2. Increasing `lockin_priority_gas` expedites your market operations by consuming more gas which could help outrun other bidders.
3. Adding known a `imageID` to `skip_preflight_ids` would reduce the delay of preflight/execution on a binary. This would allow you to beat other Brokers by submitting bids quicker.

### Tuning Service Settings

The `[prover]` settings in `broker.toml` are used to configure the prover service and significantly impact the operation of the service. The most important configuration variable to monitor and iteratively tune is `txn_timeout`. This is the number of seconds to wait for a transaction to be confirmed before timing out. Therefore, if you see timeouts in your logs, `txn_timeout` can be increased to wait longer for transaction confirmations on-chain.


## Debugging

### Orders Stuck in 'Lockin' or `submit_merkle` Confirmation Timeouts

You may notice on the [indexer](https://indexer.beboundless.xyz) that the broker has a high number of orders locked-in, but the fulfillment rate is low or even zero. This could be due to transaction confirmation timeouts. A good place to start would be to increase the `txn_timeout` in the `broker.toml` file iteratively, and see how that affects the broker's fulfillment rate.

If you need a manual way to restart orders that are "stuck", please follow:

::::steps

##### First, you'll need to manually connect to the SQLite database for the broker. This can be done inside the broker container via `sqlite3 /db/broker.db` or by mounting the `broker-data` Docker volume

##### Next, you'll need to find the batch that contains the order:

```sql [Terminal]
SELECT id FROM batches WHERE data->>'orders' LIKE '%"TARGET_ORDER_ID"%';
-- Example: SELECT id FROM batches WHERE data->>'orders' LIKE '%"0x466acfc0f27bba9fbb7a8508f576527e81e83bd00000caa"%';
```

##### Finally, you can trigger a rerun of the submitter task:

```sql [Terminal]
UPDATE batches SET data = json_set(data, '$.status', 'Complete') WHERE id = YOUR_BATCH_ID_FROM_STEP_2;
-- Example: UPDATE batches SET data = json_set(data, '$.status', 'Complete') WHERE id = 1;
```

Commit message:

add hp tokens, add banner, add clarity on incentives and add nvcc script

documentation/site/pages/prove/broker.mdx, after:

# Broker Configuration & Operation

## Overview

The Broker is a service that runs within the [Bento](/prove/proving-stack#what-is-bento) proving stack. It is responsible for market interactions including bidding on jobs, locking them, issuing job requests to the Bento proving cluster, and submitting proof fulfillments on-chain.

## Broker Configuration

:::tip[Tip]
Broker will live-reload the `broker.toml` when it changes. In most cases, you will not need to restart the Broker for the configuration to take effect.
:::

Broker configuration is primarily managed through the `broker.toml` file in the Boundless directory. This file is mounted into the Broker container and it is used to configure the Broker daemon.

### Hitpoints (HP) Tokens

:::note[Note]
To apply for access to HP tokens and become a prover, please fill out this [form](TODO) with your details.
:::

In the current phase, the Boundless market will only accept hitpoint (HP) tokens as stake for proving lock-ins. Provers stake HP tokens to participate in proof generation, and failure to meet performance standards results in slashing of your provers HP. These HP tokens can only be used within the Boundless market and as such, they are **non-transferrable** and **hold no monetary value**. 

### Deposit / Balance

The Boundless market requires staking funds to be deposited to bid on requests.
Brokers must first deposit some HP into the market contract to fund their account.
These funds cover staking during lock-in.
It is recommend that a broker keep a balance on the market >= `max_stake` (configured via broker.toml).

#### Deposit Stake to the Market

:::note[Note]
You will need the Boundless CLI installed to deposit/check your balance. 
Please see [Installing the Boundless CLI](/build/request-a-proof#installing-the-boundless-cli) for instructions.
:::

```sh [Terminal]
export RPC_URL=<TARGET_CHAIN_RPC_URL>
export PRIVATE_KEY=<BROKER_PRIVATE_KEY>
export BOUNDLESS_MARKET_ADDRESS=<BOUNDLESS_MARKET_ADDR>

# Example: 'deposit-stake 10'
boundless-cli deposit-stake <HP_TO_DEPOSIT>
```

#### Check Current Stake Balance

```sh [Terminal]
export RPC_URL=<TARGET_CHAIN_RPC_URL>
export PRIVATE_KEY=<BROKER_PRIVATE_KEY>
export BOUNDLESS_MARKET_ADDRESS=<BOUNDLESS_MARKET_ADDR>

boundless-cli balance-of-stake [wallet_address]
```

You can omit the `PRIVATE_KEY` environment variable here and specify your `wallet_address` as a optional parameter to the `balance` command, i.e., `balance 0x000....`

### Settings in Broker.toml

:::warning[Warning]
Quotation marks matter in TOML so please pay particular attention to the quotation marks for config values.
:::

`broker.toml` contains the following settings for the market:

| setting                  | initial value | description                                                                                                    |
| ------------------------ | ------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| mcycle\_price            | `".001"`      | The price (in native token of target market) of proving 1M cycles.                                             |
| assumption\_price        | `"0.1"`       | Currently unused.                                                                                              |
| peak\_prove\_khz         | `500`         | This should correspond to the maximum number of cycles per second (in kHz) your proving backend can operate.   |
| min\_deadline            | `150`         | This is a minimum number of blocks before the requested job expiration that Broker will attempt to lock a job. |
| lookback\_blocks         | `100`         | This is used on Broker initialization, and sets the number of blocks to look back for candidate proofs.        |
| max\_stake               | `"0.5"`       | The maximum amount used to lock in a job for any single order.                                                 |
| skip\_preflight\_ids     | `[]`          | A list of `imageID`s that the Broker should skip preflight checks in format `["0xID1","0xID2"]`.               |
| max\_file\_size          | `50_000_000`  | The maximum guest image size in bytes that the Broker will accept.                                             |
| allow\_client\_addresses | `[]`          | When defined, this acts as a firewall to limit proving only to specific client addresses.                           |
| lockin\_priority\_gas    | `100`         | Additional gas to add to the base price when locking in stake on a contract to increase priority.              |

## Broker Operation

### Make sure Bento is running

:::warning[Warning]
A Broker needs a [Bento](/prove/proving-stack#what-is-bento) instance to operate. Please follow the [quick start](/prove/quick-start) guide to get Bento up and running.
:::

To check Bento is running correctly, you can send a sample proof workload:

```sh [Terminal]
# In the bento directory
RUST_LOG=info cargo run --bin bento_cli -- -c 32
```

```txt [Terminal]
2024-10-23T14:37:37.364844Z  INFO bento_cli: image_id: a0dfc25e54ebde808e4fd8c34b6549bbb91b4928edeea90ceb7d1d8e7e9096c7 | input_id: eccc8f06-488a-426c-ae3d-e5acada9ae22
2024-10-23T14:37:37.368613Z  INFO bento_cli: STARK job_id: 0d89e2ca-a1e3-478f-b89d-8ab23b89f51e
2024-10-23T14:37:37.369346Z  INFO bento_cli: STARK Job running....
2024-10-23T14:37:39.371331Z  INFO bento_cli: STARK Job running....
2024-10-23T14:37:41.373508Z  INFO bento_cli: STARK Job running....
2024-10-23T14:37:43.375780Z  INFO bento_cli: Job done!
```

### Funding Your Broker on the Proving Market

:::warning[Warning]
For the current Sepolia testnet phase, we recommend funding your broker account around 1-2 Sepolia ETH. We are striving to make gas costs for market interactions in future significantly less.
:::

For the broker to interact with a [market contract](/deployments), it needs to have an associated account with a sufficient $ETH balance to pay for gas fees.

The following process will guide you through setting up a new wallet and funding it with testnet ETH:

::::steps

##### Set the environment variables `PRIVATE_KEY`, `SET_VERIFIER_ADDR`,`BOUNDLESS_MARKET_ADDR` in `.env-compose`

```sh [Terminal]
# Prover node configs
....
PRIVATE_KEY=0xYOUR_TEST_WALLET_PRIVATE_KEY_HERE
....
BOUNDLESS_MARKET_ADDR=0x69c7943DA0D7e45D44Bd0cE7a2412DCdAe423788 # This is the address of the market contract on the target chain.
....
RPC_URL="https://rpc.sepolia.org" # This is the RPC URL of the target chain.
....
```

##### Source the `.env-compose` file

```sh [Terminal]
source .env-compose
```

##### The Broker account needs funds deposited on the Boundless market contract to cover lock-in stake on requests. Run the following command to deposit an initial amount of ETH into the market contract:

```sh
# Set amount in ETH denominated units
# 0.5 Sepolia ETH should be OK for basic testing
# BOUNDLESS_DEPOSIT=0.5

RUST_LOG=info,boundless_market=debug cargo run --bin cli --  deposit ${BOUNDLESS_DEPOSIT:?}
```

```txt [Terminal]
2024-10-23T14:29:52.704754Z DEBUG boundless_market::contracts::boundless_market: Calling deposit() value: 500000000000000000
2024-10-23T14:29:52.993892Z DEBUG boundless_market::contracts::boundless_market: Broadcasting deposit tx 0xfc5c11e75101a9158735ec9e9519f5692b2f64b3337268b7ed999502956cd982
2024-10-23T14:30:07.175952Z DEBUG boundless_market::contracts::boundless_market: Submitted deposit 0xfc5c11e75101a9158735ec9e9519f5692b2f64b3337268b7ed999502956cd982
2024-10-23T14:30:07.175994Z  INFO cli: Deposited: 500000000000000000
```

::::

### Running the Broker service

:::warning[Warning]
Before running the Broker, make sure you have connected to a running instance of Bento.
:::

```sh [Terminal]
docker compose --profile broker --env-file ./.env-compose up --build
```

### Stopping The Broker Service

```sh [Terminal]
docker compose --profile broker down
```

## Broker Optimization

### Increasing Lock-in Rate

Once your broker is running, there are a few methods to optimize the lock-in rate. These methods are aimed at making your broker service more competitive in the market through different means:

1. Decreasing the `mcycle_price` would tune your Broker to bid at lower prices for proofs.
2. Increasing `lockin_priority_gas` expedites your market operations by consuming more gas which could help outrun other bidders.
3. Adding known a `imageID` to `skip_preflight_ids` would reduce the delay of preflight/execution on a binary. This would allow you to beat other Brokers by submitting bids quicker.

### Tuning Service Settings

The `[prover]` settings in `broker.toml` are used to configure the prover service and significantly impact the operation of the service. The most important configuration variable to monitor and iteratively tune is `txn_timeout`. This is the number of seconds to wait for a transaction to be confirmed before timing out. Therefore, if you see timeouts in your logs, `txn_timeout` can be increased to wait longer for transaction confirmations on-chain.


## Debugging

### Orders Stuck in 'Lockin' or `submit_merkle` Confirmation Timeouts

You may notice on the [indexer](https://indexer.beboundless.xyz) that the broker has a high number of orders locked-in, but the fulfillment rate is low or even zero. This could be due to transaction confirmation timeouts. A good place to start would be to increase the `txn_timeout` in the `broker.toml` file iteratively, and see how that affects the broker's fulfillment rate.

If you need a manual way to restart orders that are "stuck", please follow:

::::steps

##### First, you'll need to manually connect to the SQLite database for the broker. This can be done inside the broker container via `sqlite3 /db/broker.db` or by mounting the `broker-data` Docker volume

##### Next, you'll need to find the batch that contains the order:

```sql [Terminal]
SELECT id FROM batches WHERE data->>'orders' LIKE '%"TARGET_ORDER_ID"%';
-- Example: SELECT id FROM batches WHERE data->>'orders' LIKE '%"0x466acfc0f27bba9fbb7a8508f576527e81e83bd00000caa"%';
```

##### Finally, you can trigger a rerun of the submitter task:

```sql [Terminal]
UPDATE batches SET data = json_set(data, '$.status', 'Complete') WHERE id = YOUR_BATCH_ID_FROM_STEP_2;
-- Example: UPDATE batches SET data = json_set(data, '$.status', 'Complete') WHERE id = 1;
```
