documentation/site/pages/prove/quick-start.mdx, before:

# Quick Start

## Clone the Boundless repo

:::warning[Warning]
**Incentives for provers are not active for this phase.**
:::

To get started, first clone the Boundless monorepo on your proving machine, and change directory locally:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/boundless-xyz/boundless
cd boundless
```

## Setup Dependencies

:::tip[Tip]
This stage can be skipped if you already have docker and docker-nvidia installed.
:::

To run a Boundless prover, you'll need the following dependencies:

* [Docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose)
* [Docker Nvidia Support](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/latest/index.html)

For a quick set up of Boundless dependencies on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (see [Operating System Requirements](/prove/requirements#operating-system)), please run:

```sh
sudo ./scripts/setup.sh
```

## Running Boundless

The recommended place to start is the `scripts/boundless_service.sh` script. This script which will run everything you need to start proving.

Boundless is comprised of two major components:
1. **Bento** is the local proving infrastructure. Bento will take requests, prove them and return the result
2. The **Broker** interacts with the Boundless market. Broker can submit or request proves from the market.

To get started, run:

```sh [Terminal]
sudo scripts/boundless_service.sh start
```

To stop all services, run:

```sh [Terminal]
sudo scripts/boundless_service.sh stop
```

---

```sh [boundless_service.sh --help]
Usage: scripts/boundless_service.sh [command] [options]

Commands:
  start   Start Docker Compose services
  stop    Stop and remove Docker Compose services

Options:
  -e, --env-file FILE    Specify a custom environment file (default: ./.env-compose)
  -h, --help             Display this help message

Examples:
  scripts/boundless_service.sh start
  scripts/boundless_service.sh start --env-file ./.env.production
  scripts/boundless_service.sh stop
  scripts/boundless_service.sh stop --env-file ./.env.production

```

## Configuration

The `compose.yml` file defines all services within Bento. The Boundless repo includes a starter `compose.yml` which you can see [here](https://github.com/boundless-xyz/boundless/blob/main/compose.yml). For Broker configuration options, please see [Broker.toml](/prove/broker#settings-in-brokertoml).

### CUDA Compute Capability Detection

When working with NVIDIA GPUs, it's crucial to compile CUDA code with the correct compute capability to ensure optimal performance. The compute capability (e.g., `sm_86` for Ampere architecture) defines the features and instructions supported by the GPU.

To automatically detect and set the correct NVCC flags for your system, please run:

```sh [Terminal]
sudo scripts/set_nvcc_flags.sh
```

### Multi GPU

In `compose.yml`, you can configure the number of GPU's via adding new `gpu_agent<I>` and changing the `device_ids` to map to specific physical GPUs (if on a single host, multi-GPU config).

### Multi Host

Services can be run on other hosts, as long as the IP addresses for things link PostgreSQL / Redis / MinIO are updated on the remote host. See the `.env-compose` HOST configuration options [here](https://github.com/boundless-xyz/boundless/blob/main/.env-compose) to adjust them.

### Segment Size

Under the `exec_agent` service you can configure the segment size with the `--segment-po2` flag. Bigger segments are preferable for performance but do impact the proving systems conjectured security bits slightly.

Segment sizes are specified in powers-of-two (po2).
In order to pick the right segment po2 for your GPU VRAM see [the performance optimization page](/prove/performance-optimization#finding-the-maximum-segment_size-for-gpu-vram).

## Sending a Test Proof to Bento

Once everything is up, you can send a test proof to Bento to see if everything works. There are two options for test proofs:

1. The Bento CLI allows for a simple test vector with a specified cycle count via the `-c` flag:

```sh [Terminal]
RUST_LOG=info cargo run --bin bento_cli -- -c 32
```

2. The Bento CLI also accepts existing ELF / input files for [Boundless programs](/build/build-a-program):

```sh [Terminal]
RUST_LOG=info cargo run --bin bento_cli -- -f ./crates/bento-client/method_name -i /tmp/input.bin
```

## Depositing Funds to the Market

:::note[Note]
* To apply for access to HP tokens and become a prover, please fill out this [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScr5B3TZfzLKIb0Hk6oqiMMXdRh4cwpTlczi_zGqdwabvbrfw/viewform) with your details.
* To read more about depositing funds to the market, and to learn about the hitpoints token, please see [Hitpoints (HP) Tokens](/prove/broker#hitpoints-hp-tokens).
:::

Once the proving stack is running, the next step is to deposit funds to the Boundless market contract. This is for the Broker to be able to cover staking during lock-in. Currently, this will require depositing special non-transferable hitpoints (HP) tokens which are sent to whitelisted provers.

## What next?

Next, you'll need to tune your Broker's settings, please see [Broker Optimization](/prove/broker#broker-optimization). If you'd like to learn more about the technical design of Bento, please see the [Bento Technical Design Reference](http://localhost:5173/bento-technical-design).


To see your prover market statistics, check out the [provers](https://explorer.beboundless.xyz/provers) page on the Boundless Explorer.

Commit message:

BM-620: Refactor env vars and build scripts (#389)
Motivated by a few things:
1. Env var naming was inconsistent
(`BOUNDLESS_MARKET_ADDR`/`BOUNDLESS_MARKET_ADDRESS` for ex) which led to
many footguns
2. makefile, justfile, and scripts meant a confusing UX
3. Confusingly named env files, changes to env files with private env
not hidden from git (annoying)
4. Env files had default values that were not clear what they were
referencing (broker `.env-compose` was not pointing to correct localnet
or testnet contract addresses)

Defaulting to using `just` for the commands, as most flexible for what
was needed and readability. Not opinionated about commands or their
names, if you feel like something should be different let me know. I
tried to organize and remove unnecessary commands where possible.

documentation/site/pages/prove/quick-start.mdx, after:

# Quick Start

## Clone the Boundless repo

:::warning[Warning]
**Incentives for provers are not active for this phase.**
:::

To get started, first clone the Boundless monorepo on your proving machine, and change directory locally:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/boundless-xyz/boundless
cd boundless
```

## Setup Dependencies

:::tip[Tip]
This stage can be skipped if you already have docker and docker-nvidia installed.
:::

To run a Boundless prover, you'll need the following dependencies:

* [Docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose)
* [Docker Nvidia Support](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/latest/index.html)

For a quick set up of Boundless dependencies on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (see [Operating System Requirements](/prove/requirements#operating-system)), please run:

```sh
sudo ./scripts/setup.sh
```

## Running Boundless

The recommended place to start is the `scripts/boundless_service.sh` script. This script which will run everything you need to start proving.

Boundless is comprised of two major components:
1. **Bento** is the local proving infrastructure. Bento will take requests, prove them and return the result
2. The **Broker** interacts with the Boundless market. Broker can submit or request proves from the market.

To get started, run:

```sh [Terminal]
just broker

# Or run the script directly

scripts/boundless_service.sh start
```

To stop all services, run:

```sh [Terminal]
just broker down

# Or run the script directly

scripts/boundless_service.sh stop
```

---

```sh [boundless_service.sh --help]
Usage: scripts/boundless_service.sh [command] [options]

Commands:
  start   Start Docker Compose services
  stop    Stop and remove Docker Compose services

Options:
  -e, --env-file FILE    Specify a custom environment file (default: ./.env.broker)
  -h, --help             Display this help message

Examples:
  scripts/boundless_service.sh start
  scripts/boundless_service.sh start --env-file ./.env.production
  scripts/boundless_service.sh stop
  scripts/boundless_service.sh stop --env-file ./.env.production

```

## Configuration

The `compose.yml` file defines all services within Bento. The Boundless repo includes a starter `compose.yml` which you can see [here](https://github.com/boundless-xyz/boundless/blob/main/compose.yml). For Broker configuration options, please see [Broker.toml](/prove/broker#settings-in-brokertoml).

### CUDA Compute Capability Detection

When working with NVIDIA GPUs, it's crucial to compile CUDA code with the correct compute capability to ensure optimal performance. The compute capability (e.g., `sm_86` for Ampere architecture) defines the features and instructions supported by the GPU.

To automatically detect and set the correct NVCC flags for your system, please run:

```sh [Terminal]
sudo scripts/set_nvcc_flags.sh
```

### Multi GPU

In `compose.yml`, you can configure the number of GPU's via adding new `gpu_agent<I>` and changing the `device_ids` to map to specific physical GPUs (if on a single host, multi-GPU config).

### Multi Host

Services can be run on other hosts, as long as the IP addresses for things link PostgreSQL / Redis / MinIO are updated on the remote host. See the `.env.broker-template` HOST configuration options [here](https://github.com/boundless-xyz/boundless/blob/main/.env.broker-template) to adjust them.

### Segment Size

Under the `exec_agent` service you can configure the segment size with the `--segment-po2` flag. Bigger segments are preferable for performance but do impact the proving systems conjectured security bits slightly.

Segment sizes are specified in powers-of-two (po2).
In order to pick the right segment po2 for your GPU VRAM see [the performance optimization page](/prove/performance-optimization#finding-the-maximum-segment_size-for-gpu-vram).

## Sending a Test Proof to Bento

Once everything is up, you can send a test proof to Bento to see if everything works. There are two options for test proofs:

1. The Bento CLI allows for a simple test vector with a specified cycle count via the `-c` flag:

```sh [Terminal]
RUST_LOG=info cargo run --bin bento_cli -- -c 32
```

2. The Bento CLI also accepts existing ELF / input files for [Boundless programs](/build/build-a-program):

```sh [Terminal]
RUST_LOG=info cargo run --bin bento_cli -- -f ./crates/bento-client/method_name -i /tmp/input.bin
```

## Depositing Funds to the Market

:::note[Note]
* To apply for access to HP tokens and become a prover, please fill out this [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScr5B3TZfzLKIb0Hk6oqiMMXdRh4cwpTlczi_zGqdwabvbrfw/viewform) with your details.
* To read more about depositing funds to the market, and to learn about the hitpoints token, please see [Hitpoints (HP) Tokens](/prove/broker#hitpoints-hp-tokens).
:::

Once the proving stack is running, the next step is to deposit funds to the Boundless market contract. This is for the Broker to be able to cover staking during lock-in. Currently, this will require depositing special non-transferable hitpoints (HP) tokens which are sent to whitelisted provers.

## What next?

Next, you'll need to tune your Broker's settings, please see [Broker Optimization](/prove/broker#broker-optimization). If you'd like to learn more about the technical design of Bento, please see the [Bento Technical Design Reference](http://localhost:5173/bento-technical-design).


To see your prover market statistics, check out the [provers](https://explorer.beboundless.xyz/provers) page on the Boundless Explorer.
