documentation/site/pages/developers/tutorials/troubleshooting.mdx, before:

# Troubleshooting a Request

If you submitted a request, and it is stuck in an "Unknown" / "Submitted" state, there may be something that is preventing the provers from picking up your request.

- The guest may be panicking or otherwise failing to complete the job.
  - Pre-flight your request locally before sending it.
  - The `boundless-cli` does this by default, and the execution step in the Foundry template also accomplishes this.
  - If your request is submitted onchain, you can use the following command to execute it locally. If it succeeds, this is not the issue.

```sh [Terminal]
RUST_LOG=info boundless-cli proving execute --request-id $REQUEST_ID
```

- The offer price may be too low for the size of the job.
  - Try increasing the max price and ramp-up period.
  - The auction mechanism will ensure that the price you pay is the lowest price any online prover is willing to pay.
- The lock-in stake may be too high.
- The timeout may be too short.
- The bidding start block may be in the past, causing the request to immediately expire.
- The program or input URLs may not be accessible to the prover.

Commit message:

add explorer placeholder page + discord support CTA in relevant places

documentation/site/pages/developers/tutorials/troubleshooting.mdx, after:

# Troubleshooting a Request

:::tip[Need Help?]
Join our [Discord community](https://discord.gg/aXRuD6spez) and claim the developer role via [Guild.xyz](https://guild.xyz/boundless-xyz) to get access to the **#dev-support-forum** channel where you can ask questions and get help from the Boundless team and community.
:::

If you submitted a request, and it is stuck in an "Unknown" / "Submitted" state, there may be something that is preventing the provers from picking up your request.

- The guest may be panicking or otherwise failing to complete the job.
  - Pre-flight your request locally before sending it.
  - The `boundless-cli` does this by default, and the execution step in the Foundry template also accomplishes this.
  - If your request is submitted onchain, you can use the following command to execute it locally. If it succeeds, this is not the issue.

```sh [Terminal]
RUST_LOG=info boundless-cli proving execute --request-id $REQUEST_ID
```

- The offer price may be too low for the size of the job.
  - Try increasing the max price and ramp-up period.
  - The auction mechanism will ensure that the price you pay is the lowest price any online prover is willing to pay.
- The lock-in stake may be too high.
- The timeout may be too short.
- The bidding start block may be in the past, causing the request to immediately expire.
- The program or input URLs may not be accessible to the prover.
