documentation/site/pages/developers/tooling/sdk.mdx, before:

import { StripRustCodeComments } from "../../../components/strip-rust-code-comments";

# Boundless Rust SDK

The Boundless Market SDK offers high-level Rust APIs for interacting with the Boundless Market smart contracts, preparing and submitting ZK proofs, and handling relevant offchain data such as images and inputs.

[Crate Documentation](https://docs.rs/boundless-market/0.6.0/boundless_market/#boundless-market-sdk)

## Installation

```sh
cargo add boundless-market
```

or add manually to your Cargo.toml:

```toml
[dependencies]
boundless-market = "0.6.0"
```

## SDK Workflow Overview

Below is an example of the **Boundless** end-to-end programmatic workflow:

### 1. Initialize Client

```rust
use boundless_market::client::ClientBuilder;
use alloy::signers::local::LocalSigner;
# use alloy::primitives::Address;
# use url::Url;
# async fn init_client(rpc_url: Url, market_address: Address, set_verifier_address: Address) -> anyhow::Result<()> {
let client = ClientBuilder::new()
    .with_rpc_url(rpc_url)
    .with_boundless_market_address(market_address)
    .with_set_verifier_address(set_verifier_address)
    .with_wallet(LocalSigner::random().into())
    .build()
    .await?;
# Ok(())
# }
```

### 2. Upload ELF and Input

<StripRustCodeComments>
```rust
# use boundless_market::client::ClientBuilder;
# use alloy::signers::local::LocalSigner;
# use alloy::primitives::Address;
# use url::Url;
# async fn upload_elf_and_input(rpc_url: Url, market_address: Address, set_verifier_address: Address) -> anyhow::Result<()> {
# let client = ClientBuilder::new()
#    .with_rpc_url(rpc_url)
#    .with_boundless_market_address(market_address)
#    .with_set_verifier_address(set_verifier_address)
#    .with_wallet(LocalSigner::random().into())
#    .build()
#    .await?;
let elf_url = client.upload_image(&std::fs::read("guest.elf")?).await?;
let input_url = client.upload_input(&[0x41, 0x42, 0x43]).await?;
# Ok(())
# }
```
</StripRustCodeComments>

### 3. Submit Proof Request

<StripRustCodeComments>
```rust
# use alloy::providers::Provider;
# use alloy::network::Ethereum;
# use boundless_market::contracts::{ProofRequest, Requirements, Predicate, Offer};
# use boundless_market::client::Client;
# use boundless_market::storage::StorageProvider;
# async fn submit_request<P, S>(client: Client<P, S>, request: ProofRequest) -> anyhow::Result<()>
# where
#    P: Provider<Ethereum> + 'static + Clone,
#    S: StorageProvider + Clone,
# {
let (request_id, expires_at) = client.submit_request(&request).await?;
# Ok(())
# }
```
</StripRustCodeComments>

### 4. Await Fulfillment

<StripRustCodeComments>
```rust
# use std::time::Duration;
# use alloy::network::Ethereum;
# use alloy::providers::Provider;
# use boundless_market::contracts::{ProofRequest, Requirements, Predicate, Offer};
# use boundless_market::client::Client;
# use boundless_market::storage::StorageProvider;
# async fn submit_request<P, S>(client: Client<P, S>, request: ProofRequest) -> anyhow::Result<()>
# where
#    P: Provider<Ethereum> + 'static + Clone,
#    S: StorageProvider + Clone,
# {
# let (request_id, expires_at) = client.submit_request(&request).await?;
let (journal, seal) = client
    .wait_for_request_fulfillment(request_id, Duration::from_secs(10), expires_at)
    .await?;
# Ok(())
# }

```
</StripRustCodeComments>

### 5. Fetch Proof Results

<StripRustCodeComments>
```rust
# use alloy::network::Ethereum;
# use alloy::primitives::U256;
# use alloy::providers::Provider;
# use boundless_market::client::Client;
# use boundless_market::storage::StorageProvider;
# async fn fetch_results<P, S>(client: Client<P, S>, request_id: U256) -> anyhow::Result<()>
# where
#    P: Provider<Ethereum> + 'static + Clone,
#    S: StorageProvider + Clone,
# {
// If not using wait_for_request_fulfillment:
let (journal, seal) = client.boundless_market.get_request_fulfillment(request_id).await?;

// Advanced: Set-Inclusion Receipt
let (journal, receipt) = client.fetch_set_inclusion_receipt(request_id, [0u8; 32].into()).await?;
# Ok(())
# }
```
</StripRustCodeComments>

## SDK Modules

### `client`
- `Client`: Core struct for transactions, storage, and offchain interaction.
- `ClientBuilder`: Configure and build the client.

### `contracts`
- `BoundlessMarketService`: Onchain interactions (requests, fulfillments, deposits).
- `SetVerifierService`: Manages aggregated proof verifications.
- Structures: `ProofRequest`, `Offer`, `Fulfillment`.

### `input`
- `InputBuilder`: Prepare inputs for RISC Zero guests.

### `order_stream_client`
- `OrderStreamClient`: Submit/fetch orders offchain via WebSocket.

### `storage`
- Providers: `S3`, `Pinata`, and `TempFile` for uploading ELF/input data.

### `selector`
- Utilities for tracking/verifying proof types.

## Example: Full Proof Submission

```rust
use boundless_market::{
  client::ClientBuilder,
  contracts::{ProofRequest, RequestId, Requirements, Predicate, Offer},
  input::InputBuilder,
  storage::StorageProvider,
  };
use alloy::signers::local::LocalSigner;
use alloy::signers::local::PrivateKeySigner;
use alloy::primitives::{Address, U256};
use std::time::Duration;
use url::Url;

async fn proof_submission(signer: &PrivateKeySigner, rpc_url: Url, market_address: Address, set_verifier_address: Address) -> anyhow::Result<()> {
    let client = ClientBuilder::new()
        .with_rpc_url(rpc_url)
        .with_boundless_market_address(market_address)
        .with_set_verifier_address(set_verifier_address)
        .with_wallet(signer.clone().into())
        .build()
        .await?;

    let elf_url = client.upload_image(&std::fs::read("guest.elf")?).await?;
    let input_url = client.upload_input(&InputBuilder::new().write(&42u32)?.build_vec()?).await?;

    let request = ProofRequest::new(
        RequestId::new(signer.address(), 0),
        Requirements::new([0u8; 32], Predicate::prefix_match([])),
        elf_url,
        input_url,
        Offer {
            minPrice: U256::from(1_000),
            maxPrice: U256::from(2_000),
            biddingStart: 0,
            rampUpPeriod: 60,
            timeout: 3600,
            lockTimeout: 1800,
            lockStake: U256::from(500),
        }
    );

    let (request_id, expires_at) = client.submit_request(&request).await?;

    let (journal, seal) = client
        .wait_for_request_fulfillment(request_id, Duration::from_secs(10), expires_at)
        .await?;

    println!("Journal: {:?}, Seal: {:?}", journal, seal);

    Ok(())
}
```

Commit message:

fix up release links in prover docs to point to latest

documentation/site/pages/developers/tooling/sdk.mdx, after:

import { StripRustCodeComments } from "../../../components/strip-rust-code-comments";

# Boundless Rust SDK

The Boundless Market SDK offers high-level Rust APIs for interacting with the Boundless Market smart contracts, preparing and submitting ZK proofs, and handling relevant offchain data such as images and inputs.

[Crate Documentation](https://docs.rs/boundless-market/latest/boundless_market/#boundless-market-sdk)

## Installation

```sh
cargo add boundless-market
```

or add manually to your Cargo.toml:

```toml
[dependencies]
boundless-market = "X.X.X"
```
where X.X.X is the latest release specified on the [Boundless GitHub Release](https://github.com/boundless-xyz/boundless/releases) page.

## SDK Workflow Overview

Below is an example of the **Boundless** end-to-end programmatic workflow:

### 1. Initialize Client

```rust
use boundless_market::client::ClientBuilder;
use alloy::signers::local::LocalSigner;
# use alloy::primitives::Address;
# use url::Url;
# async fn init_client(rpc_url: Url, market_address: Address, set_verifier_address: Address) -> anyhow::Result<()> {
let client = ClientBuilder::new()
    .with_rpc_url(rpc_url)
    .with_boundless_market_address(market_address)
    .with_set_verifier_address(set_verifier_address)
    .with_wallet(LocalSigner::random().into())
    .build()
    .await?;
# Ok(())
# }
```

### 2. Upload ELF and Input

<StripRustCodeComments>
```rust
# use boundless_market::client::ClientBuilder;
# use alloy::signers::local::LocalSigner;
# use alloy::primitives::Address;
# use url::Url;
# async fn upload_elf_and_input(rpc_url: Url, market_address: Address, set_verifier_address: Address) -> anyhow::Result<()> {
# let client = ClientBuilder::new()
#    .with_rpc_url(rpc_url)
#    .with_boundless_market_address(market_address)
#    .with_set_verifier_address(set_verifier_address)
#    .with_wallet(LocalSigner::random().into())
#    .build()
#    .await?;
let elf_url = client.upload_image(&std::fs::read("guest.elf")?).await?;
let input_url = client.upload_input(&[0x41, 0x42, 0x43]).await?;
# Ok(())
# }
```
</StripRustCodeComments>

### 3. Submit Proof Request

<StripRustCodeComments>
```rust
# use alloy::providers::Provider;
# use alloy::network::Ethereum;
# use boundless_market::contracts::{ProofRequest, Requirements, Predicate, Offer};
# use boundless_market::client::Client;
# use boundless_market::storage::StorageProvider;
# async fn submit_request<P, S>(client: Client<P, S>, request: ProofRequest) -> anyhow::Result<()>
# where
#    P: Provider<Ethereum> + 'static + Clone,
#    S: StorageProvider + Clone,
# {
let (request_id, expires_at) = client.submit_request(&request).await?;
# Ok(())
# }
```
</StripRustCodeComments>

### 4. Await Fulfillment

<StripRustCodeComments>
```rust
# use std::time::Duration;
# use alloy::network::Ethereum;
# use alloy::providers::Provider;
# use boundless_market::contracts::{ProofRequest, Requirements, Predicate, Offer};
# use boundless_market::client::Client;
# use boundless_market::storage::StorageProvider;
# async fn submit_request<P, S>(client: Client<P, S>, request: ProofRequest) -> anyhow::Result<()>
# where
#    P: Provider<Ethereum> + 'static + Clone,
#    S: StorageProvider + Clone,
# {
# let (request_id, expires_at) = client.submit_request(&request).await?;
let (journal, seal) = client
    .wait_for_request_fulfillment(request_id, Duration::from_secs(10), expires_at)
    .await?;
# Ok(())
# }

```
</StripRustCodeComments>

### 5. Fetch Proof Results

<StripRustCodeComments>
```rust
# use alloy::network::Ethereum;
# use alloy::primitives::U256;
# use alloy::providers::Provider;
# use boundless_market::client::Client;
# use boundless_market::storage::StorageProvider;
# async fn fetch_results<P, S>(client: Client<P, S>, request_id: U256) -> anyhow::Result<()>
# where
#    P: Provider<Ethereum> + 'static + Clone,
#    S: StorageProvider + Clone,
# {
// If not using wait_for_request_fulfillment:
let (journal, seal) = client.boundless_market.get_request_fulfillment(request_id).await?;

// Advanced: Set-Inclusion Receipt
let (journal, receipt) = client.fetch_set_inclusion_receipt(request_id, [0u8; 32].into()).await?;
# Ok(())
# }
```
</StripRustCodeComments>

## SDK Modules

### `client`
- `Client`: Core struct for transactions, storage, and offchain interaction.
- `ClientBuilder`: Configure and build the client.

### `contracts`
- `BoundlessMarketService`: Onchain interactions (requests, fulfillments, deposits).
- `SetVerifierService`: Manages aggregated proof verifications.
- Structures: `ProofRequest`, `Offer`, `Fulfillment`.

### `input`
- `InputBuilder`: Prepare inputs for RISC Zero guests.

### `order_stream_client`
- `OrderStreamClient`: Submit/fetch orders offchain via WebSocket.

### `storage`
- Providers: `S3`, `Pinata`, and `TempFile` for uploading ELF/input data.

### `selector`
- Utilities for tracking/verifying proof types.

## Example: Full Proof Submission

```rust
use boundless_market::{
  client::ClientBuilder,
  contracts::{ProofRequest, RequestId, Requirements, Predicate, Offer},
  input::InputBuilder,
  storage::StorageProvider,
  };
use alloy::signers::local::LocalSigner;
use alloy::signers::local::PrivateKeySigner;
use alloy::primitives::{Address, U256};
use std::time::Duration;
use url::Url;

async fn proof_submission(signer: &PrivateKeySigner, rpc_url: Url, market_address: Address, set_verifier_address: Address) -> anyhow::Result<()> {
    let client = ClientBuilder::new()
        .with_rpc_url(rpc_url)
        .with_boundless_market_address(market_address)
        .with_set_verifier_address(set_verifier_address)
        .with_wallet(signer.clone().into())
        .build()
        .await?;

    let elf_url = client.upload_image(&std::fs::read("guest.elf")?).await?;
    let input_url = client.upload_input(&InputBuilder::new().write(&42u32)?.build_vec()?).await?;

    let request = ProofRequest::new(
        RequestId::new(signer.address(), 0),
        Requirements::new([0u8; 32], Predicate::prefix_match([])),
        elf_url,
        input_url,
        Offer {
            minPrice: U256::from(1_000),
            maxPrice: U256::from(2_000),
            biddingStart: 0,
            rampUpPeriod: 60,
            timeout: 3600,
            lockTimeout: 1800,
            lockStake: U256::from(500),
        }
    );

    let (request_id, expires_at) = client.submit_request(&request).await?;

    let (journal, seal) = client
        .wait_for_request_fulfillment(request_id, Duration::from_secs(10), expires_at)
        .await?;

    println!("Journal: {:?}, Seal: {:?}", journal, seal);

    Ok(())
}
```
