documentation/site/pages/provers/broker.mdx, before:

# Broker Configuration & Operation

## Overview

The Broker is a service that runs within the [Bento](/provers/proving-stack#what-is-bento) proving stack. It is responsible for market interactions including bidding on jobs, locking them, issuing job requests to the Bento proving cluster, and submitting proof fulfillments onchain.

## Broker Configuration

:::tip[Tip]
Broker will live-reload the `broker.toml` when it changes. In most cases, you will not need to restart the Broker for the configuration to take effect.
:::

Broker configuration is primarily managed through the `broker.toml` file in the Boundless directory. This file is mounted into the Broker container and it is used to configure the Broker daemon.

### Hitpoints (HP) Tokens

:::note[Note]
To apply for access to HP tokens and become a prover, please fill out this [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScr5B3TZfzLKIb0Hk6oqiMMXdRh4cwpTlczi_zGqdwabvbrfw/viewform) with your details.
:::

In the current phase, the Boundless market will only accept hitpoint (HP) tokens as stake for proving lock-ins. Provers stake HP tokens to participate in proof generation, and failure to meet performance standards results in slashing of your provers HP. These HP tokens can only be used within the Boundless market and as such, they are **non-transferrable** and **hold no monetary value**.

Please refer to the [Deployments](/developers/smart-contracts/deployments) page for the correct Boundless market contract address.

### Deposit / Balance

The Boundless market requires staking funds to be deposited to bid on requests.
Brokers must first deposit some HP into the market contract to fund their account.
These funds cover staking during lock-in.
It is recommend that a broker keep a balance on the market >= `max_stake` (configured via broker.toml).

#### Deposit Stake to the Market

:::note[Note]
You will need the Boundless CLI installed to deposit/check your balance.
Please see [Installing the Boundless CLI](/developers/tutorials/request#installing-the-boundless-cli) for instructions.
:::

```sh [Terminal]
export RPC_URL=<TARGET_CHAIN_RPC_URL>
export PRIVATE_KEY=<BROKER_PRIVATE_KEY>
source <(just env testnet)

# Example: 'account deposit-stake 100'
boundless-cli account deposit-stake <HP_TO_DEPOSIT>
```

#### Check Current Stake Balance

```sh [Terminal]
export RPC_URL=<TARGET_CHAIN_RPC_URL>
export PRIVATE_KEY=<BROKER_PRIVATE_KEY>
source <(just env testnet)

boundless-cli account stake-balance [wallet_address]
```

You can omit the `PRIVATE_KEY` environment variable here and specify your `wallet_address` as a optional parameter to the `balance` command, i.e., `account balance 0x000....`

### Settings in Broker.toml

:::warning[Warning]
Quotation marks matter in TOML so please pay particular attention to the quotation marks for config values.
:::

`broker.toml` contains the following settings for the market:

| setting                  | initial value | description                                                                                                    |
| ------------------------ | ------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| mcycle\_price            | `".001"`      | The price (in native token of target market) of proving 1M cycles.                                             |
| assumption\_price        | `"0.1"`       | Currently unused.                                                                                              |
| peak\_prove\_khz         | `500`         | This should correspond to the maximum number of cycles per second (in kHz) your proving backend can operate.   |
| min\_deadline            | `150`         | This is a minimum number of blocks before the requested job expiration that Broker will attempt to lock a job. |
| lookback\_blocks         | `100`         | This is used on Broker initialization, and sets the number of blocks to look back for candidate proofs.        |
| max\_stake               | `"0.5"`       | The maximum amount used to lock in a job for any single order.                                                 |
| skip\_preflight\_ids     | `[]`          | A list of `imageID`s that the Broker should skip preflight checks in format `["0xID1","0xID2"]`.               |
| max\_file\_size          | `50_000_000`  | The maximum guest image size in bytes that the Broker will accept.                                             |
| allow\_client\_addresses | `[]`          | When defined, this acts as a firewall to limit proving only to specific client addresses.                           |
| lockin\_priority\_gas    | `100`         | Additional gas to add to the base price when locking in stake on a contract to increase priority.              |

## Broker Operation

```txt [Terminal]
2024-10-23T14:37:37.364844Z  INFO bento_cli: image_id: a0dfc25e54ebde808e4fd8c34b6549bbb91b4928edeea90ceb7d1d8e7e9096c7 | input_id: eccc8f06-488a-426c-ae3d-e5acada9ae22
2024-10-23T14:37:37.368613Z  INFO bento_cli: STARK job_id: 0d89e2ca-a1e3-478f-b89d-8ab23b89f51e
2024-10-23T14:37:37.369346Z  INFO bento_cli: STARK Job running....
2024-10-23T14:37:39.371331Z  INFO bento_cli: STARK Job running....
2024-10-23T14:37:41.373508Z  INFO bento_cli: STARK Job running....
2024-10-23T14:37:43.375780Z  INFO bento_cli: Job done!
```

### Benchmarking Bento

First, start a bento cluster:

```sh [Terminal]
just bento

# Or with an env file for configuration
just bento .env.broker
```

Load environment variables for the target network:

```sh [Terminal]
# For example, if using an env file
source <(just env broker)
```

Then, run the benchmark:

```sh [Terminal]
boundless-cli proving benchmark --request-ids <IDS>
```

where IDS is a comma-separated list of request IDs from the network or order stream configured.

It is recommended to pick a few requests of varying sizes and programs, biased towards larger proofs for a more representative benchmark.

To run programs manually, and for performance optimizations, see [performance optimizations](/provers/performance-optimization).

### Running the Broker service with bento

Running a broker with `just` will also start the Bento cluster through docker compose.

:::note[Note]
`just` installation instructions can be found [here](https://github.com/casey/just#installation).
:::

```sh [Terminal]
just broker
```

### Make sure Bento is running

:::warning[Warning]
A Broker needs a [Bento](/provers/proving-stack#what-is-bento) instance to operate. Please follow the [quick start](/provers/quick-start) guide to get Bento up and running.
:::

To check Bento is running correctly, you can send a sample proof workload:

> Before running this, [install Bento CLI](/provers/quick-start#bento-cli-installation)

```sh [Terminal]
# In the bento directory
RUST_LOG=info bento_cli -c 32
```

### Running a standalone broker

To run broker with an already initialized Bento cluster or with a different prover, you can build and run a broker directly with the following:

```sh [Terminal]
cargo build --bin broker --release
# Run with flags or environment variables based on network/configuration
./target/release/broker
```

### Stopping The Broker Service

```sh [Terminal]
just broker down
```

## Safe Upgrade Steps

:::warning[Breaking Changes]
There can be subtle breaking changes between releases that may affect your broker's state. Following these upgrade steps helps minimize issues from state breaking changes.
:::

When upgrading your Boundless broker to a new version, follow these steps to ensure a safe migration:

::::steps

##### Set the broker to stop accepting new orders

Edit your `broker.toml` configuration file and set the maximum concurrent locks to 0:

```toml [broker.toml]
max_concurrent_proofs = 0
```

This prevents the broker from locking new orders while you prepare for the upgrade.

:::note[Bind Mount Issue]
If the bind mount drops and the file update is not reflected in the broker, you can try to modify the file in docker compose, for example:

```sh [Terminal]
docker compose exec broker sh -c 'sed "s/^[[:space:]]*#*[[:space:]]*max_concurrent_proofs[[:space:]]*=[[:space:]]*[0-9]*/max_concurrent_proofs = 0/" /app/broker.toml > /tmp/broker_temp.toml && cp /tmp/broker_temp.toml /app/broker.toml'
```
:::

##### Wait for in-progress orders to complete

Monitor your broker logs (or the [Boundless Explorer](https://explorer.beboundless.xyz)) to ensure all currently locked orders are completed. This may take some time depending on the state of the committed orders.

##### Stop the broker and optionally clean the database

```sh [Terminal]
just broker clean

# Or stop the broker without clearing volumes
just broker down
```

:::note[Database Cleanup]
While it is generally not necessary to clear volumes unless specifically noted in release, it is recommended to avoid any potential state breaking changes.
:::

##### Update to the new version

See [releases](https://github.com/boundless-xyz/boundless/releases) for latest tag to use.

```sh [Terminal]
git checkout <new_version_tag>
# Example: git checkout v0.9.0
```

##### Start the broker with the new version

```sh [Terminal]
just broker
```

##### Reset the max_concurrent_proofs configuration

Once the broker is running successfully with the new version, edit your `broker.toml` to restore normal operation:

```toml [broker.toml]
max_concurrent_proofs = <your_previous_value>
# Example: max_concurrent_proofs = 4
```

::::

## Broker Optimization

### Increasing Lock-in Rate

Once your broker is running, there are a few methods to optimize the lock-in rate. These methods are aimed at making your broker service more competitive in the market through different means:

1. Decreasing the `mcycle_price` would tune your Broker to bid at lower prices for proofs.
2. Increasing `lockin_priority_gas` expedites your market operations by consuming more gas which could help outrun other bidders.

### Tuning Service Settings

The `[prover]` settings in `broker.toml` are used to configure the prover service and significantly impact the operation of the service. The most important configuration variable to monitor and iteratively tune is `txn_timeout`. This is the number of seconds to wait for a transaction to be confirmed before timing out. Therefore, if you see timeouts in your logs, `txn_timeout` can be increased to wait longer for transaction confirmations onchain.

## Debugging

### Orders Stuck in 'Lockin' or `submit_merkle` Confirmation Timeouts

You may notice on the [explorer](https://explorer.beboundless.xyz) that the broker has a high number of orders locked-in, but the fulfillment rate is low or even zero. This could be due to transaction confirmation timeouts. A good place to start would be to increase the `txn_timeout` in the `broker.toml` file iteratively, and see how that affects the broker's fulfillment rate.

If you need a manual way to restart orders that are "stuck", please follow:

::::steps

##### First, you'll need to manually connect to the SQLite database for the broker. This can be done inside the broker container via `sqlite3 /db/broker.db` or by mounting the `broker-data` Docker volume

##### Next, you'll need to find the batch that contains the order:

```sql [Terminal]
SELECT id FROM batches WHERE data->>'orders' LIKE '%"TARGET_ORDER_ID"%';
-- Example: SELECT id FROM batches WHERE data->>'orders' LIKE '%"0x466acfc0f27bba9fbb7a8508f576527e81e83bd00000caa"%';
```

##### Finally, you can trigger a rerun of the submitter task:

```sql [Terminal]
UPDATE batches SET data = json_set(data, '$.status', 'Complete') WHERE id = YOUR_BATCH_ID_FROM_STEP_2;
-- Example: UPDATE batches SET data = json_set(data, '$.status', 'Complete') WHERE id = 1;
```

::::

Commit message:

add warning to broker stop about locked orders

documentation/site/pages/provers/broker.mdx, after:

# Broker Configuration & Operation

## Overview

The Broker is a service that runs within the [Bento](/provers/proving-stack#what-is-bento) proving stack. It is responsible for market interactions including bidding on jobs, locking them, issuing job requests to the Bento proving cluster, and submitting proof fulfillments onchain.

## Broker Configuration

:::tip[Tip]
Broker will live-reload the `broker.toml` when it changes. In most cases, you will not need to restart the Broker for the configuration to take effect.
:::

Broker configuration is primarily managed through the `broker.toml` file in the Boundless directory. This file is mounted into the Broker container and it is used to configure the Broker daemon.

### Hitpoints (HP) Tokens

:::note[Note]
To apply for access to HP tokens and become a prover, please fill out this [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScr5B3TZfzLKIb0Hk6oqiMMXdRh4cwpTlczi_zGqdwabvbrfw/viewform) with your details.
:::

In the current phase, the Boundless market will only accept hitpoint (HP) tokens as stake for proving lock-ins. Provers stake HP tokens to participate in proof generation, and failure to meet performance standards results in slashing of your provers HP. These HP tokens can only be used within the Boundless market and as such, they are **non-transferrable** and **hold no monetary value**.

Please refer to the [Deployments](/developers/smart-contracts/deployments) page for the correct Boundless market contract address.

### Deposit / Balance

The Boundless market requires staking funds to be deposited to bid on requests.
Brokers must first deposit some HP into the market contract to fund their account.
These funds cover staking during lock-in.
It is recommend that a broker keep a balance on the market >= `max_stake` (configured via broker.toml).

#### Deposit Stake to the Market

:::note[Note]
You will need the Boundless CLI installed to deposit/check your balance.
Please see [Installing the Boundless CLI](/developers/tutorials/request#installing-the-boundless-cli) for instructions.
:::

```sh [Terminal]
export RPC_URL=<TARGET_CHAIN_RPC_URL>
export PRIVATE_KEY=<BROKER_PRIVATE_KEY>
source <(just env testnet)

# Example: 'account deposit-stake 100'
boundless-cli account deposit-stake <HP_TO_DEPOSIT>
```

#### Check Current Stake Balance

```sh [Terminal]
export RPC_URL=<TARGET_CHAIN_RPC_URL>
export PRIVATE_KEY=<BROKER_PRIVATE_KEY>
source <(just env testnet)

boundless-cli account stake-balance [wallet_address]
```

You can omit the `PRIVATE_KEY` environment variable here and specify your `wallet_address` as a optional parameter to the `balance` command, i.e., `account balance 0x000....`

### Settings in Broker.toml

:::warning[Warning]
Quotation marks matter in TOML so please pay particular attention to the quotation marks for config values.
:::

`broker.toml` contains the following settings for the market:

| setting                  | initial value | description                                                                                                    |
| ------------------------ | ------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| mcycle\_price            | `".001"`      | The price (in native token of target market) of proving 1M cycles.                                             |
| assumption\_price        | `"0.1"`       | Currently unused.                                                                                              |
| peak\_prove\_khz         | `500`         | This should correspond to the maximum number of cycles per second (in kHz) your proving backend can operate.   |
| min\_deadline            | `150`         | This is a minimum number of blocks before the requested job expiration that Broker will attempt to lock a job. |
| lookback\_blocks         | `100`         | This is used on Broker initialization, and sets the number of blocks to look back for candidate proofs.        |
| max\_stake               | `"0.5"`       | The maximum amount used to lock in a job for any single order.                                                 |
| skip\_preflight\_ids     | `[]`          | A list of `imageID`s that the Broker should skip preflight checks in format `["0xID1","0xID2"]`.               |
| max\_file\_size          | `50_000_000`  | The maximum guest image size in bytes that the Broker will accept.                                             |
| allow\_client\_addresses | `[]`          | When defined, this acts as a firewall to limit proving only to specific client addresses.                           |
| lockin\_priority\_gas    | `100`         | Additional gas to add to the base price when locking in stake on a contract to increase priority.              |

## Broker Operation

```txt [Terminal]
2024-10-23T14:37:37.364844Z  INFO bento_cli: image_id: a0dfc25e54ebde808e4fd8c34b6549bbb91b4928edeea90ceb7d1d8e7e9096c7 | input_id: eccc8f06-488a-426c-ae3d-e5acada9ae22
2024-10-23T14:37:37.368613Z  INFO bento_cli: STARK job_id: 0d89e2ca-a1e3-478f-b89d-8ab23b89f51e
2024-10-23T14:37:37.369346Z  INFO bento_cli: STARK Job running....
2024-10-23T14:37:39.371331Z  INFO bento_cli: STARK Job running....
2024-10-23T14:37:41.373508Z  INFO bento_cli: STARK Job running....
2024-10-23T14:37:43.375780Z  INFO bento_cli: Job done!
```

### Benchmarking Bento

First, start a bento cluster:

```sh [Terminal]
just bento

# Or with an env file for configuration
just bento .env.broker
```

Load environment variables for the target network:

```sh [Terminal]
# For example, if using an env file
source <(just env broker)
```

Then, run the benchmark:

```sh [Terminal]
boundless-cli proving benchmark --request-ids <IDS>
```

where IDS is a comma-separated list of request IDs from the network or order stream configured.

It is recommended to pick a few requests of varying sizes and programs, biased towards larger proofs for a more representative benchmark.

To run programs manually, and for performance optimizations, see [performance optimizations](/provers/performance-optimization).

### Running the Broker service with bento

Running a broker with `just` will also start the Bento cluster through docker compose.

:::note[Note]
`just` installation instructions can be found [here](https://github.com/casey/just#installation).
:::

```sh [Terminal]
just broker
```

### Make sure Bento is running

:::warning[Warning]
A Broker needs a [Bento](/provers/proving-stack#what-is-bento) instance to operate. Please follow the [quick start](/provers/quick-start) guide to get Bento up and running.
:::

To check Bento is running correctly, you can send a sample proof workload:

> Before running this, [install Bento CLI](/provers/quick-start#bento-cli-installation)

```sh [Terminal]
# In the bento directory
RUST_LOG=info bento_cli -c 32
```

### Running a standalone broker

To run broker with an already initialized Bento cluster or with a different prover, you can build and run a broker directly with the following:

```sh [Terminal]
cargo build --bin broker --release
# Run with flags or environment variables based on network/configuration
./target/release/broker
```

### Stopping The Broker Service

```sh [Terminal]
just broker down
```

:::warning[Warning]
If running the broker on a network, there may be locked proofs that have not been fulfilled yet. Follow the [Safe Upgrade Steps](#safe-upgrade-steps) to ensure a clean shutdown and/or upgrade process.
:::

## Safe Upgrade Steps

:::warning[Breaking Changes]
There can be subtle breaking changes between releases that may affect your broker's state. Following these upgrade steps helps minimize issues from state breaking changes.
:::

When upgrading your Boundless broker to a new version, follow these steps to ensure a safe migration:

::::steps

##### Set the broker to stop accepting new orders

Edit your `broker.toml` configuration file and set the maximum concurrent locks to 0:

```toml [broker.toml]
max_concurrent_proofs = 0
```

This prevents the broker from locking new orders while you prepare for the upgrade.

:::note[Bind Mount Issue]
If the bind mount drops and the file update is not reflected in the broker, you can try to modify the file in docker compose, for example:

```sh [Terminal]
docker compose exec broker sh -c 'sed "s/^[[:space:]]*#*[[:space:]]*max_concurrent_proofs[[:space:]]*=[[:space:]]*[0-9]*/max_concurrent_proofs = 0/" /app/broker.toml > /tmp/broker_temp.toml && cp /tmp/broker_temp.toml /app/broker.toml'
```
:::

##### Wait for in-progress orders to complete

Monitor your broker logs (or the [Boundless Explorer](https://explorer.beboundless.xyz)) to ensure all currently locked orders are completed. This may take some time depending on the state of the committed orders.

##### Stop the broker and optionally clean the database

```sh [Terminal]
just broker clean

# Or stop the broker without clearing volumes
just broker down
```

:::note[Database Cleanup]
While it is generally not necessary to clear volumes unless specifically noted in release, it is recommended to avoid any potential state breaking changes.
:::

##### Update to the new version

See [releases](https://github.com/boundless-xyz/boundless/releases) for latest tag to use.

```sh [Terminal]
git checkout <new_version_tag>
# Example: git checkout v0.9.0
```

##### Start the broker with the new version

```sh [Terminal]
just broker
```

##### Reset the max_concurrent_proofs configuration

Once the broker is running successfully with the new version, edit your `broker.toml` to restore normal operation:

```toml [broker.toml]
max_concurrent_proofs = <your_previous_value>
# Example: max_concurrent_proofs = 4
```

::::

## Broker Optimization

### Increasing Lock-in Rate

Once your broker is running, there are a few methods to optimize the lock-in rate. These methods are aimed at making your broker service more competitive in the market through different means:

1. Decreasing the `mcycle_price` would tune your Broker to bid at lower prices for proofs.
2. Increasing `lockin_priority_gas` expedites your market operations by consuming more gas which could help outrun other bidders.

### Tuning Service Settings

The `[prover]` settings in `broker.toml` are used to configure the prover service and significantly impact the operation of the service. The most important configuration variable to monitor and iteratively tune is `txn_timeout`. This is the number of seconds to wait for a transaction to be confirmed before timing out. Therefore, if you see timeouts in your logs, `txn_timeout` can be increased to wait longer for transaction confirmations onchain.

## Debugging

### Orders Stuck in 'Lockin' or `submit_merkle` Confirmation Timeouts

You may notice on the [explorer](https://explorer.beboundless.xyz) that the broker has a high number of orders locked-in, but the fulfillment rate is low or even zero. This could be due to transaction confirmation timeouts. A good place to start would be to increase the `txn_timeout` in the `broker.toml` file iteratively, and see how that affects the broker's fulfillment rate.

If you need a manual way to restart orders that are "stuck", please follow:

::::steps

##### First, you'll need to manually connect to the SQLite database for the broker. This can be done inside the broker container via `sqlite3 /db/broker.db` or by mounting the `broker-data` Docker volume

##### Next, you'll need to find the batch that contains the order:

```sql [Terminal]
SELECT id FROM batches WHERE data->>'orders' LIKE '%"TARGET_ORDER_ID"%';
-- Example: SELECT id FROM batches WHERE data->>'orders' LIKE '%"0x466acfc0f27bba9fbb7a8508f576527e81e83bd00000caa"%';
```

##### Finally, you can trigger a rerun of the submitter task:

```sql [Terminal]
UPDATE batches SET data = json_set(data, '$.status', 'Complete') WHERE id = YOUR_BATCH_ID_FROM_STEP_2;
-- Example: UPDATE batches SET data = json_set(data, '$.status', 'Complete') WHERE id = 1;
```

::::
