documentation/site/pages/provers/quick-start.mdx, before:

# Quick Start

## Clone the Boundless repo

:::warning[Warning]
**Incentives for provers are not active for this phase.**
:::

To get started, first clone the Boundless monorepo on your proving machine, and switch to the release branch:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/boundless-xyz/boundless
cd boundless
git checkout release-0.8
```

## Setup Dependencies

:::tip[Tip]
This stage can be skipped if you already have docker and docker-nvidia installed.
:::

To run a Boundless prover, you'll need the following dependencies:

* [Docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose)
* [Docker Nvidia Support](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/latest/index.html) (*Note: the install process requires enabling NVIDIA’s experimental packages*)

For a quick set up of Boundless dependencies on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (see [Operating System Requirements](/provers/requirements#operating-system)), please run:

```sh
sudo ./scripts/setup.sh
```

## Running Boundless

The recommended place to start are the `just` commands. This script will run everything you need to start proving.

Boundless is comprised of two major components:
1. **Bento** is the local proving infrastructure. Bento will take requests, prove them and return the result
2. The **Broker** interacts with the Boundless market. Broker can submit or request proves from the market.

To get started, run:

```sh [Terminal]
just broker
```

To stop all services, run:

```sh [Terminal]
just broker down
```

Or remove all volumes and data from the service:

```sh [Terminal]
just broker clean
```

---

And to run with a custom environment file:

```sh [Terminal]
just broker up ./.env.broker
just broker down ./.env.broker
```


## Configuration

The `compose.yml` file defines all services within Bento. The Boundless repo includes a starter `compose.yml` which you can see [here](https://github.com/boundless-xyz/boundless/blob/main/compose.yml). For Broker configuration options, please see [Broker.toml](/provers/broker#settings-in-brokertoml).

### Multi GPU

In `compose.yml`, you can configure the number of GPU's via adding new `gpu_agent<I>` and changing the `device_ids` to map to specific physical GPUs (if on a single host, multi-GPU config).

### Multi Host

Services can be run on other hosts, as long as the IP addresses for things link PostgreSQL / Redis / MinIO are updated on the remote host. See the `.env.broker-template` HOST configuration options [here](https://github.com/boundless-xyz/boundless/blob/main/.env.broker-template) to adjust them.

### Segment Size

Under the `exec_agent` service you can configure the segment size with the `--segment-po2` flag. Bigger segments are preferable for performance but do impact the proving systems conjectured security bits slightly.

Segment sizes are specified in powers-of-two (po2).
In order to pick the right segment po2 for your GPU VRAM see [the performance optimization page](/provers/performance-optimization#finding-the-maximum-segment_size-for-gpu-vram).

## Sending a Test Proof to Bento

### Bento CLI installation

To install the latest CLI version:

```sh [Terminal]
cargo install --git https://github.com/risc0/risc0 bento-client --bin bento_cli
```

### Using the Bento CLI

Once everything is up, you can send a test proof to Bento to see if everything works. There are two options for test proofs:

1. The Bento CLI allows for a simple test vector with a specified cycle count via the `-c` flag:

```sh [Terminal]
RUST_LOG=info bento_cli -c 32
```

2. The Bento CLI also accepts [existing program and input files](/developers/tutorials/build):

```sh [Terminal]
RUST_LOG=info bento_cli -f ./crates/bento-client/method_name -i /tmp/input.bin
```

## Depositing Funds to the Market

:::note[Note]
* To apply for access to HP tokens and become a prover, please fill out this [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScr5B3TZfzLKIb0Hk6oqiMMXdRh4cwpTlczi_zGqdwabvbrfw/viewform) with your details.
* To read more about depositing funds to the market, and to learn about the hitpoints token, please see [Hitpoints (HP) Tokens](/provers/broker#hitpoints-hp-tokens).
:::

Once the proving stack is running, the next step is to deposit funds to the Boundless market contract. This is for the Broker to be able to cover staking during lock-in. Currently, this will require depositing special non-transferable hitpoints (HP) tokens which are sent to whitelisted provers.

To deposit to the market, please follow the [Deposit Stake to Market](/provers/broker#deposit--balance) instructions.

## What next?

Next, you'll need to tune your Broker's settings, please see [Broker Optimization](/provers/broker#broker-optimization). If you'd like to learn more about the technical design of Bento, please see the [Bento Technical Design Reference](/provers/bento).


To see your prover market statistics, check out the [provers](https://explorer.beboundless.xyz/provers) page on the Boundless Explorer.

Commit message:

add explorer placeholder page + discord support CTA in relevant places

documentation/site/pages/provers/quick-start.mdx, after:

# Quick Start

:::tip[Need Help?]
If you encounter issues that need technical support, join our [Discord community](https://discord.gg/aXRuD6spez) and claim the prover role via [Guild.xyz](https://guild.xyz/boundless-xyz) to get access to the *#prover-support-forum* channel. The Boundless team and experienced provers are there to help troubleshoot issues and share best practices.
:::

## Clone the Boundless repo

:::warning[Warning]
**Incentives for provers are not active for this phase.**
:::

To get started, first clone the Boundless monorepo on your proving machine, and switch to the release branch:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/boundless-xyz/boundless
cd boundless
git checkout release-0.8
```

## Setup Dependencies

:::tip[Tip]
This stage can be skipped if you already have docker and docker-nvidia installed.
:::

To run a Boundless prover, you'll need the following dependencies:

* [Docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose)
* [Docker Nvidia Support](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/latest/index.html) (*Note: the install process requires enabling NVIDIA’s experimental packages*)

For a quick set up of Boundless dependencies on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (see [Operating System Requirements](/provers/requirements#operating-system)), please run:

```sh
sudo ./scripts/setup.sh
```

## Running Boundless

The recommended place to start are the `just` commands. This script will run everything you need to start proving.

Boundless is comprised of two major components:
1. **Bento** is the local proving infrastructure. Bento will take requests, prove them and return the result
2. The **Broker** interacts with the Boundless market. Broker can submit or request proves from the market.

To get started, run:

```sh [Terminal]
just broker
```

To stop all services, run:

```sh [Terminal]
just broker down
```

Or remove all volumes and data from the service:

```sh [Terminal]
just broker clean
```

---

And to run with a custom environment file:

```sh [Terminal]
just broker up ./.env.broker
just broker down ./.env.broker
```


## Configuration

The `compose.yml` file defines all services within Bento. The Boundless repo includes a starter `compose.yml` which you can see [here](https://github.com/boundless-xyz/boundless/blob/main/compose.yml). For Broker configuration options, please see [Broker.toml](/provers/broker#settings-in-brokertoml).

### Multi GPU

In `compose.yml`, you can configure the number of GPU's via adding new `gpu_agent<I>` and changing the `device_ids` to map to specific physical GPUs (if on a single host, multi-GPU config).

### Multi Host

Services can be run on other hosts, as long as the IP addresses for things link PostgreSQL / Redis / MinIO are updated on the remote host. See the `.env.broker-template` HOST configuration options [here](https://github.com/boundless-xyz/boundless/blob/main/.env.broker-template) to adjust them.

### Segment Size

Under the `exec_agent` service you can configure the segment size with the `--segment-po2` flag. Bigger segments are preferable for performance but do impact the proving systems conjectured security bits slightly.

Segment sizes are specified in powers-of-two (po2).
In order to pick the right segment po2 for your GPU VRAM see [the performance optimization page](/provers/performance-optimization#finding-the-maximum-segment_size-for-gpu-vram).

## Sending a Test Proof to Bento

### Bento CLI installation

To install the latest CLI version:

```sh [Terminal]
cargo install --git https://github.com/risc0/risc0 bento-client --bin bento_cli
```

### Using the Bento CLI

Once everything is up, you can send a test proof to Bento to see if everything works. There are two options for test proofs:

1. The Bento CLI allows for a simple test vector with a specified cycle count via the `-c` flag:

```sh [Terminal]
RUST_LOG=info bento_cli -c 32
```

2. The Bento CLI also accepts [existing program and input files](/developers/tutorials/build):

```sh [Terminal]
RUST_LOG=info bento_cli -f ./crates/bento-client/method_name -i /tmp/input.bin
```

## Depositing Funds to the Market

:::note[Note]
* To apply for access to HP tokens and become a prover, please fill out this [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScr5B3TZfzLKIb0Hk6oqiMMXdRh4cwpTlczi_zGqdwabvbrfw/viewform) with your details.
* To read more about depositing funds to the market, and to learn about the hitpoints token, please see [Hitpoints (HP) Tokens](/provers/broker#hitpoints-hp-tokens).
:::

Once the proving stack is running, the next step is to deposit funds to the Boundless market contract. This is for the Broker to be able to cover staking during lock-in. Currently, this will require depositing special non-transferable hitpoints (HP) tokens which are sent to whitelisted provers.

To deposit to the market, please follow the [Deposit Stake to Market](/provers/broker#deposit--balance) instructions.

## What next?

Next, you'll need to tune your Broker's settings, please see [Broker Optimization](/provers/broker#broker-optimization). If you'd like to learn more about the technical design of Bento, please see the [Bento Technical Design Reference](/provers/bento).


To see your prover market statistics, check out the [provers](https://explorer.beboundless.xyz/provers) page on the Boundless Explorer.
