docs/src/prover-manual/bento/running.md, before:

# Running Bento

Bento is a docker compose stack containing all the services to run a Bento cluster on a single or many machines.
It includes docker build files for internal services as well as external images for `postgres/redis/grafana/minio` for support services.

## Dependencies

- Docker compose
- Docker Nvidia support

## Configuration

The `compose.yml` file defines all the services within the Bento. Here you can configure the number of GPU's via adding new `gpu_agent<I>` and changing the `device_ids` to map to specific physical GPUs (if on a single host, multi-GPU config).

Under the `exec_agent` service you can configure the segment size with the `--segment-po2` flag. Bigger segments are preferable for performance but do impact the proving systems conjectured security bits slightly. In order to pick the right segment po2 for your GPU VRAM see [reports -> datasheet](https://reports.risczero.com/) for details.

Services can be run on other hosts, as long as the IP addresses for things link PostgreSQL / Redis / MinIO are updated on the remote host.

Additionally, `NVCC_APPEND_FLAGS` should be set to match your specific GPU architecture, a good reference for GPU -> SM version can be [found here](https://arnon.dk/matching-sm-architectures-arch-and-gencode-for-various-nvidia-cards/)

<div class="warning">

TODO: Write more here about how to do multi-host services like gpu-agent / exec-agent

</div>

## Host setup

At this time Ubuntu is the only supported Operating system. Other operating systems _should_ work, but driver support (host Nvidia drivers matching container drivers etc.), compile dependencies, and testing fall to the user to complete.

For a quick set up of boundless host dependencies on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS, please run:

```sh
scripts/setup.sh
```

## Running

To build and spin up a Bento cluster locally using docker:

```sh
docker compose --env-file ./.env-compose up --build
```

Optionally you can use the startup script included in this repo:

```sh
scripts/boundless_service.sh start
```

To stop the boundless service:

```sh
scripts/boundless_service.sh stop
```

## Sending a sample proof to the cluster

Using a simple test vector for testing different cycle counts (via the -c flag):

```sh
RUST_LOG=info cargo run --bin bento_cli -- -c 32
```

Or with a existing elf / input file:

```sh
RUST_LOG=info cargo run --bin bento_cli -- -f ./crates/bento-client/method_name -i /tmp/input.bin
```

Commit message:

Added better docs around NVCC_APPEND_FLAGS

docs/src/prover-manual/bento/running.md, after:

# Running Bento

Bento is a docker compose stack containing all the services to run a Bento cluster on a single or many machines.
It includes docker build files for internal services as well as external images for `postgres/redis/grafana/minio` for support services.

## Dependencies

- Docker compose
- Docker Nvidia support

## Configuration

The `compose.yml` file defines all the services within the Bento. Here you can configure the number of GPU's via adding new `gpu_agent<I>` and changing the `device_ids` to map to specific physical GPUs (if on a single host, multi-GPU config).

Under the `exec_agent` service you can configure the segment size with the `--segment-po2` flag. Bigger segments are preferable for performance but do impact the proving systems conjectured security bits slightly. In order to pick the right segment po2 for your GPU VRAM see [reports -> datasheet](https://reports.risczero.com/) for details.

Services can be run on other hosts, as long as the IP addresses for things link PostgreSQL / Redis / MinIO are updated on the remote host.

Additionally, the `NVCC_APPEND_FLAGS` docker build arg (found in `compose.yml->services->exec_agent->build->args) should be set to match your specific GPU architecture, a good reference for GPU -> SM version can be [found here](https://arnon.dk/matching-sm-architectures-arch-and-gencode-for-various-nvidia-cards/)

You can also adjust the CUDA optimization level via `CUDA_OPT_LEVEL` in the exec_agent build args. A value of `3` might yield slightly better performance (a few %) but much longer build times.

<div class="warning">

TODO: Write more here about how to do multi-host services like gpu-agent / exec-agent

</div>

## Host setup

At this time Ubuntu is the only supported Operating system. Other operating systems _should_ work, but driver support (host Nvidia drivers matching container drivers etc.), compile dependencies, and testing fall to the user to complete.

For a quick set up of boundless host dependencies on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS, please run:

```sh
scripts/setup.sh
```

## Running

To build and spin up a Bento cluster locally using docker:

```sh
docker compose --env-file ./.env-compose up --build
```

Optionally you can use the startup script included in this repo:

```sh
scripts/boundless_service.sh start
```

To stop the boundless service:

```sh
scripts/boundless_service.sh stop
```

## Sending a sample proof to the cluster

Using a simple test vector for testing different cycle counts (via the -c flag):

```sh
RUST_LOG=info cargo run --bin bento_cli -- -c 32
```

Or with a existing elf / input file:

```sh
RUST_LOG=info cargo run --bin bento_cli -- -f ./crates/bento-client/method_name -i /tmp/input.bin
```
